Creating an executable file from a Python project that also installs dependencies like pip on the user's operating system is a multi-step process and involves considerations for both Python code packaging and system-level operations.

Creating an Executable from a Python Project
You can use tools like PyInstaller or cx_Freeze to create standalone executables from your Python code. These tools bundle your Python program and all its dependencies into a single executable file.

PyInstaller:

Install PyInstaller using pip install pyinstaller.
Run pyinstaller your_script.py to create an executable. This command generates a dist folder containing the executable.
cx_Freeze:

Install cx_Freeze using pip install cx_Freeze.
Set up a setup.py script for your application, specifying configurations.
Run python setup.py build to create the executable.
Installing pip on the User's System
Automatically installing pip or other system-level dependencies from an executable can be tricky and is generally not recommended due to security and permission issues. It's typically better to provide instructions for users to install these dependencies themselves.

However, if you still want to include this functionality:

Check for pip in Your Executable:

Your executable can check if pip is installed by trying to import it or running a command like pip --version.
Install pip if Necessary:

If pip is not installed, you can attempt to install it using a system command. This would require administrative permissions and might prompt the user for their password.
For Linux, the installation command might be something like sudo apt-get install python3-pip (for Debian/Ubuntu systems).
Include a Warning or Disclaimer:

Since your executable will be performing system-level changes, it's crucial to inform users of this beforehand, preferably before they download or run the executable.
Considerations and Best Practices
Permissions and Security: Automatically installing system-level packages can pose security risks. Ensure users are aware of what the executable will do and consider prompting for confirmation before making system changes.
Cross-Platform Compatibility: If your target audience uses different operating systems, you'll need to handle each case (Windows, macOS, Linux) separately.
Documentation: Provide clear documentation on what the executable does, how to use it, and what system changes it makes.

install package future

sudo apt-get install python3-tk

